For my final Culminating I was tasked with creating an original game with a creative and many extra added elements. I took many steps in the planning, coding and reflecting portions of this assignment. 

Topic: My game is inspired by the old game "Street Fighter". My game "Alley Biter" is a unique game where you can play as different characters and fight other cats to collect currency.

Game Description/features: My game has many different elements and features to it such as stores, pauses and unique character descriptions. The player can start by choosing one of the three cat characters. Each character has there own backstory and special movement.In the fight the player must complete there moves to deal damage on the opponent. To complete the move the player must press all buttons before the timer runs out.Each of the three levels has an decrease in time making it hard to win each fight. After every game the player will collect 50 dollars worth of the games currency "bones". The bones can be used in the store to upgrade skills like player damage, player heath, and time to click buttons. Some extra features is the pause button which stops the game and give the player 2 options. The player can choose to go home or choose to continue the game. There is also a how to play button on the front screen that describes the elemens of the game.

What I struggled with: Starting of with the planning stage I struggled with figuring out my pseudocode. I find I work better when I just start codeing but for this project I had to plan first. Wokring on elements like my IPO chart and my Methods Table where helpful starting areas and helped me better plan how I was going to write my pseudocode. I also make a flow chart that showed each step and element of the game which allowed me to better understand each step I needed to work throught. Once I started my code the beginign steps were very easy. Adding in different screens and clicking buttons was very simple. I faced my first issue when I was trying to get the timer for the players movement to work. I was unfamiliar with the millis command so I didnt know how to address this issue. I resolved my problem by researching this function on the processing website to get familiar. The next issue I had was with getting the opponets moves to be slow and have motion. I worked through this issue step by step and foused first on delayed movements using the delay function. Next I got the character to move using for loops and int variables. Once I broke this issue down into smaller ones it became alot easier for me to fix it. My last big issue was just a bunch of small issues in the game play. As I tested my game for the first time i only found one small issue with the opponent image changing arrays but as I went on testing each function more and more small issue keeped popping up. These little issues ended up taking way longer then expected and it was a very tedious process. Overall there were alot of issues with this project but through patience and time I was able to solve each one and learn somethign from it.

What I’m proud of: I faced many issues in my coding but i worked through each one so the thing I am most proud of from the game is my improvements. At the start of the semester I didn't even know how to print the word high let alone create a shape. With each project we did I challanged myself to do new things and create even better code then before. In our first coding project the name plate I struggles alot. From issues like understanding rotations to naming local variables I felt very challanged. Yet I still managed to work through the project and create a very stylish name plate. Lookign back, with my knowledge of coding now I could easily make something much more impressive then what I did which shows me how much I have learned and grown throughtout this semester.I went form printing lines to coding huge games with different features and elements. This game is something me 5 months ago couldn't even attempet which shows me how much I have improved and how hard I have worked to get better. Overall the thing I am most proud of in this project is how much I have improved and will hopefully continue to improve.



